All right, I'm gonna let this go all
the way up till about 2000. 2 runs through.
There we go.
I'm gonna kill those two things,
I'm gonna do one more test,
we're gonna go up to 2000.
I'm gonna do 2000, awesome.
Make sure you don't have
an inspect flag on.
If you have the Inspect flag on,
well, that's just gonna suck.
So, [LAUGH] don't do that.
All right, and so I'm gonna take that.
One more, put a two there so we're at
2000 and let's see how bad this one is.
It's looking a lot better than it was last
time but we just got started running so
we'll see what happens as all the games
really get running around in here.
I mean it looks a lot better,
it currently looks a lot better.
I'm not saying it
actually is a lot better.
But it looks a lot better, okay.
I mean,
I don't wanna claim victory yet, but
I'm just saying we're looking a lot
faster, at least in our upper bound.
In our lower bound,
did we really make an improvement?
31 versus pretty much 31.
I mean, that could be error.
That could be a local host.
I would just chalk that up to nothing,
right?
I would just say, that's not a W.
I'd even be pretty hesitant to
call this one a W, a 36 to a 32.
I'm pretty hesitant about that one because
I don't know what the error rate is.
We, again, this isn't a long test.
Again, I have Chrome
inspector window open.
I have LSPs running.
I don't know what percent
different this could make.
As far as this one goes, maybe we got
something there on the upper end.
We're looking a bit healthier, cuz we went
from 43, we went from 62, 63% to about 43.
So probably something there,
I think we can probably safely say that
this optimization actually
made a difference here.
Now, I haven't been following along here
and so I probably missed a bunch of things
that I was supposed to say to you and
these really great ideas such as
you probably should have made
this on a different branch.
All these changes.
So we're gonna do that.
We're gonna check out a different
branch and make all those changes.
You are probably impressed
by my Vim skills by the way,
if you wanna check out a super
cool vim course on frontend
masters.com not slash trial,
this one's not free.
Check it out, it's there.
It's how I approach Vim.
It's still awesome, not free.
We also did this.
I even talk about how I really,
really messed that one up, all right.
And we check the performance tab.
Everything's looking good.
We check the practical one.
We do see a slight win in the practical
one potentially it looks like there's
a there.
Again, we're not in production, but
I'm confident to say that
something probably is better.
So there we go.
Sorry, I forgot I did all this stuff.
What do we do now?
Bathroom break?
I really feel like we gotta keep going for
a moment because we're not quite there
unless, if you guys really have
to use the bathroom break.
No, okay.
We gotta keep going, okay?
I think we need to do more profiling,
okay?
I just feel it in my bones.
So before we do that, I'm gonna jump
over here and I'm gonna go like this.
Get status,
I'm gonna add these things here.
I'm gonna check out fo for
first optimization so
I can kinda store it for
later cuz I want to do the next
optimization again off of
our kinda base project.
And that way we can kind of try putting
them together to see what happens and
see is there some sort
of multiplying effect?
Are we actually perceiving a real win?
Maybe one win causes another
win to be way better.
It just doesn't look better by itself.
So let's find out, all right.
So git status, git commit.
First W of the day, let's go.
All right, git checkout master,
git checkout -b second option,
there we go, we're are looking good.
So now we're branched of master again and
we can go back here and we can do that.
But before we go on I
wanna give you a brief and
entirely too short introduction
into the garbage collector, okay.
This is really important
information that you should know.
There's a really awesome blog
post called Trash Talk on V8 it
goes over what is the name of the GC
in my head I've lost the name
of their they have code names for
all their all their projects.
I know it ends in o n o I just
can't remember the first part.
It starts with an O, ends in an O.
Anyways, so
these are gonna be V8 specific features.
These are not JSC specific features,
which means that if you do this with BUN,
you'll have slightly different results.
I assume they have the same
style of garbage collector, but
I don't really know.
All right, so let's look at
this following code right here.
Which is just let a is an object, b is
an array with a in it, c has a ref to a.
Really what's happening underneath the
hood is that there exists this object a.
And maybe the bookkeeping is attached
in some sort of wrapper class to a,
maybe it's allocated behind a and
how they do their memory stuff.
I'm I don't exactly know how they do it,
but in some sense there is some amount of
bookkeeping to be able to make sure
that when a is created, they know a has
a reference to it, or someone's pointing
to it when they walk through the graph.
It has some sort of determined
location somewhere in the memory,
in the nursery really when it begins with,
and so they're all pointing to it.
Then at some point everyone
should inherently understand this
because we've all done
something like this.
We've set a property on a and
it's reflected in b's first element in
the array, in c's child item inside the
object, you kind of understand inherently
that there's pointers somewhere in
here that everything is pointing to.
So now, but what happens when we do this?
a becomes undefined.
b, we execute pop.
c, we delete a ref.
What happens?
Well, our dead b, our original addressed
object, has been completely abandoned.
Nothing is pointing to it.
Well, GC needs to happen.
So there's two types of GCs.
First, there is something called a major,
which walks all of everything inside
the heap, starting from the roots.
It's typically considered slow.
It's gonna check exhaustively.
It also performs compaction in
case pages get too fragmented.
It does a lot of stuff.
Then there's minors.
Minors only walk from special
roots to check for new objects,
and so V8 has what is referred
to as a generational GC.
Typically, the major one is
called marking and sweeping.
And so
you can kinda think of it in this example.
Say we have this little
piece of HTML here,
greatest programming language ever,
and we create a and b.
Those are actually attached the window
object you may have forgot this.
A lot of people probably have forgot this
but if you just raw dog a script in HTML,
whatever variable you create actually
get attached to the window object.
It's kind of one of those things you
forget when you've been working in this
module system for so long,
but this just happens.
So a and b are on the window and
at some point we said to b to undefined.
All right, so that means window
has a reference to b and a.
When a GC happens,
before we set b to undefined,
it will start at the window object, and
it's gonna crawl all of its references,
which means it eventually will say,
hey, I'm gonna mark b.
I found b.
Hey, I'm gonna mark a.
I have found a.
Okay, nothing I need to clean up.
We set b to undefined and
so now we start another GC.
It goes to the window object.
It's able to reach a,
but b has been unmarked.
It is able to be cleaned up.
It's able to be added to the free list.
That's how they kinda keep track of all
the little holes is they have something
called a free list,
which we will actually get back to.
There's a really cool
technique I haven't tried but
I really want to try on
making things faster.
All right, lastly, so
that's kinda the basics of a major GC.
Crawls finds objects that
are still there and marks them.
Everything else gets the sweep.
Compaction, this is
directly from the blog.
A major GC also chooses to evacuate slash
compact some pages based on fragmentation
heuristics.
You can think of compaction like hard
disk defragmentation of an old PC.
Zoomers confused right now.
I get it.
We copy surviving objects into pages that
are not currently being compacted using
a free list.
And that way we can make
use of the small and
scattered gaps within memory
left behind by dead objects.
Okay, so that's just directly from them.
If you don't know what that means,
it just means that at some point,
some pages are gonna have a bunch
of just holes in them and so
probably need to be cleaned up.
So we can move all those objects out,
put them into other pages so
that way they start filling all the holes,
and
then now we have a clean page in which we
can just start freshly allocating from.
All right, a minor GC,
this one also called a scavenge.
This is a second form of GC, and
it follows the generational hypothesis,
which basically states that
most objects die young.
In other words, JavaScript
programmers create a lot of garbage.
And most objects are allocated and
then almost immediately become unreachable
from the perspective of the GC.
This is, again, a direct quote from V8's
trash talk, again, an amazing article
to go read it goes quite detailed.
There's also a YouTube video,
which is really really good from EU
2018 I believe or no to you 2018.
Very, very good talk about
how the GC effectively works.
And so a minor GCs are pretty
complicated in some sense,
because they use a couple of
techniques that are different.
And so, one thing they do is they have
a different set of roots to calculate, but
only half of the memory
is used in a minor GC.
So they have something called a from
space and something called a to space.
And so, what they do is every object
they can reach in the from space or
the place that they currently
have been allocating objects in,
they copy them over one at
a time to the to space and
update any pointers that refine
the same object with a back ref to it.
It's pretty complicated and now the to
space has all the live objects and
all the ones that were unreachable
are simply just deleted.
Or really they just probably
are just not referenced anymore and
they get overwritten as
new objects come in.
And so they just do this thing back and
forth where half the memory is used,
half of it is for the next GC, so
all live objects just keep on getting
half between these two things.
So to recap GC is to stop the world one,
crawl everything.
They're typically more rare.
They usually take significantly
longer than a minor GC.
They may have to do some compacting and
other kind of memory management's
stuff minors typically pretty fast.
There's something called a nursery or
young generation and
they happen pretty frequently.
Like if we do a dash dash trace
dash GC on our node process,
you'll actually see it spit out
scavenged GC pretty regularly.
And so how does the generational one work?
Effectively, when you have a bunch
of objects in your from space and
they get copied over to the to space
they get marked with something and so
they're considered
an intermediate aged object.
When it does it again if they contain
a mark they'll be moved into the old
generation.
The old generation is the one
that's cleaned up by the major GC,
the minor ones are all cleaned
up with the young generation.
And there's a whole bunch of
multi-threading parallelism that is added
to both minor and
major that make it really fast.
So really think about what that means
because if you have a garbage collector
that is very, very multi-threaded and
you're running on a two core machine
that's also accepting
a bunch of internet requests,
you're probably gonna have
some competition going on.
You may not be able to achieve as good of
performance cuz on my machine there's six
cores, right?
On the EC2 instance that you're using,
there might not be six cores and really
amazing silicon and the latest technology.
It might be pretty commodity-based and
it may not run nearly as fast.
So GCs can have a disproportional
effect if you don't have as much freely
available compute time.
That's why clients tend to experience
little stutter from GCs, but you can see
GCs disproportionately affecting servers,
especially when you run in production.
Some of the best changes I've ever made
have been just less GCs on a server
because it's just that the instance was
small enough that it greatly affected how
the network and
everything interplayed with each other.
Here's a cool picture from
the talk that's linked.
You can actually see that it just spawns a
whole bunch of background, marking threads
before it does any of these activities so
it can do them all in super parallel.
So again,
less availability you have probably
the longer these things are gonna take.
All right, so there you go.
That's like a brief introduction.
So when you make two squiggly braces when
you make a simple object hopefully that
makes you go okay.
I am having impact on my program,
maybe not right where I'm doing it.
It can be impacted somewhere
completely different.